Create outline of Mimir 2.6 release notes (#4002)
grafana/mimir: docs/sources/mimir/release-notes/v2.6.md

---
title: "Grafana Mimir version 2.6 release notes"
menuTitle: "V2.6 release notes"
description: "Release notes for Grafana Mimir version 2.6"
weight: 300
---

# Grafana Mimir version 2.6 release notes

Grafana Labs is excited to announce version 2.6 of Grafana Mimir.

The highlights that follow include the top features, enhancements, and bugfixes in this release. For the complete list of changes, see the [changelog](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md).

## Features and enhancements

- **Lower memory usage in store-gateway by streaming series results**

>   The store-gateway can now stream results back to the querier instead of buffering them. This is expected to greatly reduce peak memory consumption while keeping latency the same. This is still an **experimental feature** and is subject to a changing API and instability.

Reviewer: We can smooth the messaging here. API won't change and we're not aware of any issue. We'll run in all zones once 2.6 stable will be published.

```suggestion
  The store-gateway can now stream results back to the querier instead of buffering them. This is expected to greatly reduce peak memory consumption while keeping latency the same. This is still an **experimental feature** but Grafana Labs is already running it in production and there's no known issue. This feature can be enabled setting the `-blocks-storage.bucket-store.batch-series-size` configuration option (if you want to try it out, we recommend you setting to 5000).
```

- **Improved stability in store-gateway by removing mmap usage**

>   The store-gateway can now use an alternate code path to read index-headers that does not use memory mapped files. This is expected to improve stability of the store-gateway. This is still an **experimental feature** and is subject to a changing API and instability.

Reviewer: I would smooth the messaging here as well.

```suggestion
  The store-gateway can now use an alternate code path to read index-headers that does not use memory mapped files. This is expected to improve stability of the store-gateway. This is still an **experimental feature** but Grafana Labs is already running it in production and there's no known issue. This feature can be enabled setting `-blocks-storage.bucket-store.index-header.stream-reader-enabled=true`.
```

> - **Alertmanager Webex support**

Reviewer: I would generalise this into a "Alertmanager enhancements" and include these:

> * [ENHANCEMENT] Alertmanager: Add new additional template function `tenantID` returning id of the tenant owning the alert. #3758
> * [ENHANCEMENT] Alertmanager: Add additional template function `grafanaExploreURL` returning URL to grafana explore with range query. #3849

  Alertmanager can now use Webex to send alerts.

> 

Reviewer: Can you add an entry about all features moved to stable? The 2 you recently did (the CHANGELOG entry for them is still missing) and this one:

> * [ENHANCEMENT] Query-frontend: CLI flag `-query-frontend.max-total-query-length` and its associated YAML configuration is now stable. #3882

### Helm chart improvements

> TBD

Reviewer 2: LGTM assuming we're fine with merging this TBD and updating later?

> ## Important changes

Reviewer: Can you also mention this? We want people to stop using `-store.max-query-length` and use `-querier.max-partial-query-length` instead.

> * [CHANGE] Querier: Introduce `-querier.max-partial-query-length` to limit the time range for partial queries at the querier level and deprecate `-store.max-query-length`. #3825

Author: Sure but I think we need further work to actually deprecate this setting. Normally when we deprecate something we use `flagext.DeprecatedFlag` and immediately start ignoring the flag and refactor all code to use the new flag. Shouldn't be we doing that here?

Reviewer: `-store.max-query-length` has already been removed from the doc. It's still parsed as a fallback and we should have updated all places in the documentation mentioning it.
